I'd like to welcome our
new sponsor. Couchbase Couchbase is
an open source, no SQL
document and key value store
database requires no external cash
support CQL and analytical queries
for Jason data Couchbase supports
technologies like Kubernetes, java.net, Java
script, go and Python. Download
it, give it a try
at couchbase.com/hansel minutes. That's couchbase.com/hansel
minutes. And I'll remind you
that when you support our
sponsors, you support this show.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. Today. I'm talking
with Edward Thompson, product manager, GitHub
calling in from the UK.
How are you, sir? Well,
I'm doing as well as
can be expected, Scott. Indeed.
This is one of those
questions. When you say, how
are you? And you're like,
okay. I mean, some people
say that it's nice to
discover that your lifestyle was
actually called quarantine. We didn't
know that that was how
we live. Apparently for some
people, nothing changed. They just
never went out and now
they don't go out anyway.
Yeah. As an introvert, I
just go to the grocery
store less frequently. Yeah. But
for, for us, my wife
is a nurse and she's
going to the hospital and
my brothers are firefighters. So
I'm getting all of the,
like the war stories. It's
definitely not fun. Hopefully when
all of this is over,
we will all be safe
and, and warm. And we'll
maybe, maybe the year will
give us back our summer.
That would be nice to
get a group Cron or
something. Yeah. Well, I am
spending a lot of time
on my computer because I
am at home here and
in the process, I'm tidying
up all my repositories and
setting up all of my
CIC D and I understand
that you work on a,
get hub and work on,
get hub actions. I do.
So when get up actions
came out, I first saw
it and I thought to
myself, this is like, if
this, then that, like, you
know, the or Zapier or
flow, it's like a workflow
engine. And I see some
people, people refer to it
differently. Like when you talk
to people in the public,
they're like, Oh yeah, it's
like a workflow. And that'd
be like, no, it's a
CACD. And it's like, when
two people argue about, you
know, I like my peanut
butter and I like my
chocolate. I was like, well,
no, you can have both.
That's exactly what is, what
is the thing? It is,
it is both of those
things. So if I look
back at good have actions,
if you, if you rewind,
we announced it in November, 2018.
And when we did, we
really thought of it as
a way to extend the
ghetto platform or way that
you could extend get hub.
And so it was a
very workflow engineer idea way
back, you know, as, as
long as I can remember
using get hub, we've had
web hooks and we've had
a rest API, have actions
was a way to take
those two things and use,
get hubs, compute, get hubs
infrastructure to actually automate tasks.
So Let's say when somebody
opens an issue in your
repository, you can run a
workflow and it can, I
don't know, add a label
to that issue, things like
that. And so we launched
that as a beta again,
and I think it was
November, 2018 at get hub universe.
And people looked at that
and the first thing that
they wanted to do, and
this should have been really
obvious to us, but they
wanted to build their repositories.
And you could for like
a limited value of build,
you know, if you had,
you know, a TypeScript project
and you wanted to compile
it to JavaScript, give them
actions could do that. But
if you had a, I
dunno, a Swift application and
you wanted to build an
iOS app, not so much
like the architecture just wasn't
geared up for that. So
we actually hit pause on
the beta and we kind
of revisited what get hub
actions meant, and we added
CICB capabilities. So now you
can, you can do that
build whether it's macro S
or Linux or, or windows,
we've got those machines for
you in our cloud. And
so now we have CICB
capabilities as well. So it's
really both When I, when
I think of get hub,
I think of like massive
amounts of storage, I think
about like all the world's
source code in this just
massive, massive get repository. I
know it's like billions of
given positories, but I just
imagine one giant one. So
I think storage, I don't
think compute. So when I
think of the problems that
I would, I would guess
as a lay person, what
get hub would deal with
would be, well, they have
a lot of storage problems,
but now you've decided not
only did have storage problems,
but also compute problems that
in themselves have combinatorics because
you build your, your main
branch and your pillagers sub
branches and all your PRS
need to be built suddenly
by getting into the CIC
D business, you have two
problems or times probably compute
time storage problems. Yeah. That's,
that's, that's exactly right. And
it's funny, you mentioned that
because I actually started out
at GitHub on the team
that stores your get repositories.
So yeah. And so then
I pivoted to this problem
instead, and that, but what
you say is exactly right.
You know, we, we have
to maintain this, this fleet
of servers to do your
bills. And, you know, macro
S is particularly challenging. Cause
it ends up being that
we have to, you know,
take trash cans and fit
them into racks, somehow Trash
cans, referring to the lovely
shape of the Mac pros.
Oh, it's delightful. Isn't it?
It fits really well in
a 19 Interac. Yeah. They
stack so well. Yeah, But
you can't just run a
Mac in a container. Like
you would think that they're
so into containers and Linux
that they would you're on
a Mac. I mean, why,
why can't I just run
a Mac in a container
and do my build there?
Wouldn't it be nice. You,
you run into licensing requirements.
If you want to run
a build on a Mac,
you have to have physical
hardware and you can virtualize
it a little bit like
that. Apple let you do
that, but you do need
a physical Apple device. Wow.
That is unfortunate. But you
do have runners for Lennox,
for Mac, for windows, even
arm, Even arm. Yeah. We
don't actually offer arm in
our cloud, but you can,
if you want to, you
know, bring a raspberry PI,
you can plug it in,
you can put our runner
on it and then you
can run your workloads right
there. And that's something that
I actually do from time
to time just to make
sure that arm works. Okay.
Hang on a second. So
you can do a, you
can do a local, like
you can add yourself to
the ghetto cloud effectively for
your own use. And then
the actions run in the
cloud until they run down
on who your runner and
then run on your raspberry
PI and then run back
up. Yeah. That's, that's exactly
right. You, you basically get
to specify what platform you
run on. And, and again,
it could be windows, it
could be Linux, it could
be macro S and those
are things that we have,
but it could be your
own hardware in your own
data center. Or, you know,
when I say data center,
you know, I'm looking around
under the desk, there's a
raspberry PI sitting there and
yeah, that'll that'll work. That
is pretty cool. Okay. So
one of the things that
is the most powerful about
it is the marketplace and
the number of actions, because,
you know, you kick off
a thing like this, and
you don't know if anyone's
going to care, but if
you go to the GitHub
marketplace, there's over 3000 actions,
which is just a stupid
amount of, of stuff, literally,
anything you can think of,
how did you know that
you would get 3000 or
more like thousands of actions,
someone, It just worked out.
I'm glad it did. Oh,
there must be. It must
be easy to make them
otherwise. They wouldn't be 3000.
It is easy to make.
And it's, it's actually a
really powerful way to, to
extend workflows. So, so get
home actions is, is the
platform that runs, runs your
workflows. And then you can
actually use, what's called an
action. And I, I regret
the name a little bit,
but an action itself is
a reusable component that you
can use in your workflows.
And they are exactly right.
Super easy to build. So
you can either build them
in a, you know, as
a JavaScript app or a
TypeScript app, or you can
bring a Docker container. And
what it'll do is just,
you know, take some code,
run it, and then spit
something out the other side.
Let me give you an
example. I have one that
will send a tweet so
I can write a get
hub workflow that will run
any time. I add an
issue to my repository, and
then I can use my
action to send that issue
as a tweet. And so
one of the things that
I'm looking at doing is
actually automating the Twitter account
for one of my open
source projects, so that any
maintainer can just create an
issue that has an announcement,
you know, Hey, we just
released 1.0, isn't that great.
Go here to download it.
And then we can actually
send that tweet out. That
means that nobody has to
worry about credentials. Nobody has
to think about, you know,
logging into twitter.com. We can
just manage our Twitter account
from the same place that
we manage the rest of
our open source project. Okay.
So let's, let's dig into
that for a second. So
you said you have an
action, a singular and get
hub actions is, is not
just a collection of actions,
but it's the entire product
name. I am looking now
at github.com/e Thompson sent tweet
action. Your action. It looks
like it's just to get
hub repository and inside there's
an action dot Yammel file.
So an action is itself
a repositor That's right. It's
just a repository. It's got
some code in, it Runs
using node. 12 can get
how actions run on anything
or what could do, are
they all node? So, yeah,
so you've got, you've got
your choice. When you're building
an action, you can either
build it as a no
JS app and either TypeScript
or JavaScript, or you can
bring a Docker container. And
so if you bring a
Docker container, you can write
your action in, you know,
really anything at all. I
could write a.net action, a
little.net, core, little, little, tiny,
little kind of container That's
right. You can, you can
bring that, you know, the.net
core base image, build your
app on top of it,
package it up as a
container, put that in a
get hub repository. So we'll,
we'll take that Docker file.
We'll build that, that re
repo for you into a,
into a container. And then
we'll run that. And is
it kind of like, you
know, how you, when, when,
when are we learning Unix?
People always say that the
power of Unix is small,
you know, single responsibility executable
that are chained together with
pipes and redirects and things
like that. It seems like
actions does a similar thing.
What context do you flow
into your action and what
context flows out of it?
Right. So I think that
that's a really astute observation.
That's definitely the way we
thought about GitHub actions, you
know, in the first place,
you know, as a workflow
engine, that's how we, that's
really how we thought about
it. The CIC D aspects,
a lot of people just
want to run a script
that that is their build
script, but sure. But the
repository automation actions, yeah. It's
basically designed. So you have
inputs, your action, your action
takes, and it will do
some work and then we'll
set outputs. So you can
just chain these things together,
taking the output from one
and feeding it into the
input of another. Interesting, okay.
But if I'm doing, let's
say I have a, my
little.net, one that I wrote
in as a Docker container,
and I wrote my action
dot Yammel and then I
mind flows context forward into
send tweet. Is that context
adjacent bundle? Is it a
dictionary of some kind, what
would name value pairs are
being passed around? Basically just
a, yeah. A key value
list, a dictionary of strings.
You can put files on
disk if you want it
to and communicate that way,
but at its simplest form
strings. Okay. So what's interesting
is that when I showed
up at this IE Thompson
slash send tweet action and
I'll have links to everything
in the show notes, I'm
I note that, you know,
you show up and you
go, look, it's just a
get hub repository, but at
the top, it literally just
says, use this, get hub
action with your project. So
you have identified that it
is an action. I can
click view on marketplace, and
then I get a different
view. So instead of seeing
send tweet action, the pile
of files and get hub,
I see your, that your
CIC CD for your send
tweet action is in fact
passing. I see the contributor,
I can star it. It's
now a marketplace. It's instantly
turned your, a read me
and your repository into a
marketplace item. That's right. And
in fact, you can, you
can see all this from
the get hub actions, workflow
editor. So if you're on
get hub and in your
repository and you want to
use this, the easiest way
to do that is actually
to click the actions tab,
and then you can create
a new workflow. And that
will basically bring you into
our Yammel editor. And I
don't know how you feel
about Yammer. I feel generally
medium about camel, but I
feel some kind of way.
I feel, yeah, I feel
feelings about Yammel, but like
our editor actually has syntax
highlighting and tab completion, which
really helps the AML experience.
I got to tell you,
but the other thing it
has over on the right
hand side is a tab
that will let you browse
the marketplace. So you can
add actions from the marketplace
right there from within the
editor. Hmm. I just went
as an experiment to one
of my very old repositories
that I did with Kent
Dodds called first timers only.
And it's, I see issues,
poll requests, actions. I click
on actions and then it
says, build and test your
CSS repository. So it actually
figured out what kind of
stuff I have in this
folder. And it took a
guess, it says, Oh, this
looks like it's got some
CSS there. And then at
the bottom it says already
a popular workflows. It knows
about Azure. It knows about
Amazon. It knows about Google.
I can probably get this
running in an hour. Maybe
less, maybe minutes. I hope
so. Yeah. That's, that's the
goal. So we, we look
at, we use what's called
linguist. It's a, it's a
package, it's an opensource project
that get hub created. And
what linguists does is it
looks at your repository and
tries to figure out what's
in it, whether there's C
or C sharp or rust,
and it will basically analyze
each file and give you
a percentage. And so we
look at the percentage, the
biggest percentage, we, we are
going to suggest those workloads
for you. So if you
have a Russ project and
go to that page, you'll
see started workloads for rust.
Hmm. When you need to
focus on building, do you
want to get bogged down
by your database? Mongo DB
is an intuitive, flexible document
database that lets you get
to building Mongo. DBS document
model is a natural way
to represent data so you
can focus on what matters.
Mongo DB Atlas is the
best way to use Mongo
DB. It's a global cloud
database service that gives you
all of the developer productivity
of Mongo DB. Plus the
added simplicity of a fully
managed database service. You can
get started free with Mongo
DB atlas@mongodb.com slash Atlas. So
I'm going to ask a
question though, that is kind
of the elephant in the
room. I, I have some
familiarity with the animal, but
I, my familiarity is with
Azure dev ops. So I've
got a lot of different
repositories with small sites. And
I recently set up two
or three of them in
dev ops, which I ended
up using the animal for
as well. And they're not
complicated. They just, they build
the thing and they deploy
the thing. I did it
because it was free and
it's easy. It looks like
get hub actions is free
and easy. When would I
pick one versus the other?
And should I, should I
move from one to the
other If you're happy with
what you have? No, I
don't. I don't think you
should move, but you know,
when I look at sort
of a Greenfield CICT system,
if I don't have any
CIC on my project and
I want to decide which
one to use, the first
question is, is it on
ghetto? If the answer is,
yes, I'm probably going to
start looking at GitHub actions
cause it's really tightly integrated.
I really like that. My
builds are in the same
place as my source code.
I think that makes it
really easy. If the answer
is no good have actions
isn't going to work as
well for you. It's not
like we have some easy
way to pull from, you
know, get lab or Bitbucket
or, or, you know, a
server under your desk. And
so Azure pipelines can do
that. The other thing that
Azure pipelines can do that
get, have actions can't do
is TFTC and subversion and
you know, different types of
repositories, you know, get home
actions is very focused on
building a get repository that's
in get hub. Azure pipelines
is much more generic about
where the code comes from.
The only thing that agile
pipelines is really good at
is like Azure workflows. You
know, you mentioned that GitHub
actions, you saw the starter
workflows and you saw Azure,
AWS and Google Azure pipelines
on the other hand is,
is a lot more focused
on building your code and
getting it into Azure as
a deployment platform. And so,
you know, that's, that's certainly
one difference to bear in
mind as well. Interesting. That's
actually the best explanation that
I've heard so far from
anyone inside or outside of
GitHub or Microsoft that I
actually feel like I finally
get it because I've got
some very ashery things and
some very complex tied into
Azure stuff. They're very sophisticated
builds and very sophisticated specifically
deployments. And it makes sense
because they're so generic to
use Azure dev ops, they
run in Azure, they do
Azure stuff, but at the
same time, I've got a
lot of stuff in GitHub
that where Azure, the Azure
would be an implementation detail.
Like I could deploy it
anywhere. So I could see
myself using actions for, you
know, 60, 70% of my
things. And then for the
very Azure focused stuff that
is on the, on the
niche, on the edge, I
would go and use a
DevOps that, that actually makes
sense. I can, I literally
out in front of me
now can think about a
future for my repositories and
not feel bad about using
either one of those things.
I don't think you should
bad now. And To the,
to the Azure teams credit,
they're also building get hub
actions so that they're making
it easier to deploy to
Azure with good actions. But,
but yeah, I don't think
you should feel bad about
either of your choices. Okay.
That makes a lot of
sense. So why would get
hub get into the dev
ops space? Like, is this
an entering a marketplace kind
of a thing because they
could, they could have just
done nothing and just held
the source code and let
it go. Sure. But I
really think that there's a
lot of value in tying
these experiences together. Like I
said, I, I really like
that my code and my
CICT are in the same
place. I don't have to
tab back and forth to
different experiences. I don't have
to log in a couple
of different times and we're
able to give you, you
know, better integrations into get
hub itself if you're using
actions. So that's, that's one
aspect of it. The other
place that we're extending out
is into get hub packages.
And I think that these
are like a natural combination,
so I can take my
code. I can build my
code and I can deploy
my code. And if it's
so happens that what deploying
my code means is creating
a new get package or
an NPM package. Then I
need somewhere to put that.
And, you know, from one
of my opensource projects, that
place ultimately is new get.org
because I want people to
use that package. I want
people to discover that package,
you know, and so it's
gotta go on to new,
get.org, but while I'm doing
development, I need a way
to install that package and
test it locally. And so
I probably don't want it
to go to new, get.org
as I'm doing testing, but
it might make sense to
push it to some other
package registry so that I
can still install it easily.
And so that's a really
good use for a private
package registry or a, you
know, a package registry that
isn't open to the public.
Like, Hey, look at these,
this is a released product
sort of version and get
hub packages really shines there.
So they are peas and
carrots. They're always together get
hub actions can have packages.
If you do anything sophisticated,
you'll find yourself using them
together. Think so. You know,
I, I don't want to
say always, always, always because
some of your deployments might
not be something that gets
packaged, you know, you might
actually just build any ECC
and push it up to
a certain simple. Yeah. Yeah.
But ultimately, you know, I
see a lot of people
building Docker containers and I
think packages makes a lot
of sense as a place
to store those, even if
just as an intermediate storage
location before it ends up
landing on your servers For,
for anything that is a
team that is building an
intermediate step on the way
to something else, or anytime
you have someone building an
internal package for use downstream,
I just love having a
separate private package registry. Like
when went years ago, when
new gate was very first
coming out and I'm a.net
person. So when I say
new, get the audience can
certainly replace that with Ruby
jams or Maven or Docker
NPM. But it was, it
was the height of sophistication
at our company that, that
my organization would create a
new get package, a library,
put it into a private
registry and then anyone else
in the company could pull
from there. And that package
had no business being on
the public new, get.org. Cause
it was a private thing,
but we allowed our package
registry to represent the org
chart. Right. Ordinarily you don't
want to ship the org
chart, but having a private
package registry really opens up
how one organization inside a
company can interact with others
within the company. It formalizes
it from everything from versioning
two releases. Yeah. I think
that it's really healthy to
go that route. Cause otherwise
you're just like sticking packages
on a file share somewhere.
And that's, you know, that
feels very, I don't know,
1997 to me. Well, you
know, someone is listening to
this, this podcast and they're
saying, I resemble that. Oh
yeah, you're right. I, I
think that it, you know,
instead of taking offense, maybe
you should look at that
as an opportunity to adopt
some more better practices within
your organization. Take a good
hard look at yourself, dr.
Lecter. Yeah. See, this is
where I put my foot
in my mouth again. No,
because it's true though. And
here's the thing when I,
we're not trying to shame
anybody, but I have to,
it, we all have, we
all have been there. Right.
I'm sure that you have
projects right now in GitHub.
You even product manager at
GitHub have projects that haven't
got an action yet because
you just haven't got around
to it. You've got like,
Oh, this hobbyist thing or
this kid, I had this
thing I did with my
kid. It's I, you know,
I should probably make a
CIC D we're at a
time now I think in
2020, where it's fair to
say that if, if you
can build it, then you
should automate that build and
you should have a formal
CIC to you. Shouldn't have
it building under, you know,
on a computer under Anna's
desk. That's not how you
release software today. And it's
so easy. There's no excuse.
So I would encourage people
who are listening to the
show to not take offense,
but rather to take a
sense of empowerment. And when
you're done with this show,
go out and take that
thing that you've never made
build a, in a CIC
environment and make it happen.
I think that's exactly right.
You know, my friend Damian
says that friends don't let
friends right. Click deploy. And
there's a certain amount of
truth to that. I, Yeah,
Damien's great. Damon Brady I've
actually said, if you happen
to have to open up
two finder windows to deploy,
you're probably doing it wrong.
Wait, I shouldn't just drag
and drop. Yeah. So, so
how are the updates since
launch? We talked about how
there are thousands of items
in the marketplace are people
are using it. Are you
running out of compute? How's
that going? People are using
it, thankfully we're, we're not
yet running out of compute.
We're keeping up with demand.
It does require us to,
you know, to, to provision
new machines once in awhile.
But yeah, I I'm really
overwhelmed by, by how people
are using it. I'm really
thrilled. It's it seems like
people are using it mostly
happy. Obviously, you know, there's
some rough edges here and
there and we get feedback
and we're working on, on
taking those rough edges down.
You know, since, since launch,
we've added, you know, dependency
and artifact caching, we've added
the self hosted runner feature
that I think maybe that
happened. Like we announced that
the day of GA or
if not shortly after we
just added an API so
that you can interact with
it more programmatically. One of
the things that we get
to me, like super geeked,
like if I have to
convince someone, Hey, you should
probably take that build and
automate it. That's not exciting,
right? Like if I see
a friend like, Hey, have
you, have you got your
CIC running at anything? But
then I show them the
pull requests for my sites.
So I run this podcast.
And for example, this podcast
is on, on get hub.
I'm one person, but I
have a global CDN. I
have Azure. I have the
power of the cloud, right?
It looks like a million
bucks because the cloud allows
me to look like a
million bucks, but I'm still
only one development team, but
I show people my poll
request right now, I'm looking
at my Hansel minutes, pull
requests. And this is my
most favorite thing. Maybe you
can help me understand how
this works. I have 11
poll requests, but it's a
private repository. And I'm one
person who are these coming
from. I just clicked on
one and dependable. It has
seen that a nougat package
got an update, sucked out
the release notes from the
previous update up to like
they did a diff of
the release notes. They didn't
just dump them, but they
like have a bulleted list
of what's changed. The commits
have been rolled up a
change log and it went
and built a thing and
is telling me I can
merge the pull request. It's
like having a vendor that
works for you, but it's
not a human It's dependable.
Wonderful. Yeah. It's like having
your own security team. It's
crazy. And you can talk
to it. The part that
blew me away, and this
is where I get everyone
converted is you can then
tell it stuff you can
say, Oh, well, okay, well
use this milestone and squash
that and it will do
it. Like it's a person,
but you don't have to
pay them cause it's a
bond. Right. So yeah. So
the idea behind dependent bot
is that it has this
database of every it's it's
called a CVE. I think
CVE stands for common vulnerability
and exposure, right? So every
security bug on every package
that's ever been released and
it can look at your
project and see what new
get packages you're using and
figure out if there's a
security vulnerability. And if there
is, it knows what package
version doesn't have that security
vulnerability, and it can update
you. And so it'll open
that pull request automatically. And
I think that is really,
really cool, but here's another
example of why I think
having your source code and
your dependent bot integrated with
actions is a great thing
because now you're going to
run build every time your
you're depending on opens a
pull request, right? And that
build will hopefully pass if
dependent bot did a good
job. And I usually see
that it does right every
time, but depending on opens
up, pull requests for me,
I get a green build,
all my tests pass. And
so I actually actually have
a pretty high degree of
confidence that things are going
to work. What if GitHub
actions could then just merge
that flow request? It knows
that who opened the full
request. It trusts, depended bot.
It knows that the test
is passed. So I actually
have a workflow set up
to go ahead and auto
merge. Anything that depends about
who spends, if I I'm
pretty comfortable with my test
suite. Oh my goodness. You
have to be pretty uncomfortable.
That's the thing, right? That's
what that's so interesting because
I'm like, Oh, I don't
know. But at the same
time you do. I mean,
and you can try it
and if it doesn't work
for you, you can, you
can not do it. But
that would be to have
that level of test coverage
to have that sense of
confidence. If you think about
how people who are listening
might feel about their code,
we've all had that code
base that we are afraid
of. Like, I don't want
to piss it off. I
don't want to anger the
code. Right. Just like it
works. Don't anger it. Right.
And you're saying that you
literally have this bot putting
things into production because you
trust it. I'll pack the
staging, opening the staging. Okay.
I'll give you that pretty,
that's pretty close. That's pretty
good. I'm just going to
start merging these things in
just Willy nilly right now,
because why not? What could
go wrong? You go, well,
yeah, the w the podcast
would stop abruptly. Mmm. Pretty
I get about 71%, 72%
code coverage. So I don't
okay. But I love that.
So the, you said there's
the security aspect of things,
but then there's also whether
or not dependent on just
notices that a, a minor
release has happened. You can
tell it like, Oh, this
thing, this thing, wasn't a
security update. It was just
a change. Right. It, it
manages all dependencies, not just
security. That's true. I, yeah.
I mostly think about it
from a dependence, from a
security point of view, but
you're absolutely right. It can
tell you anytime something changes.
So that's Example of a
bot, what other bots could
I have creeping amount? My
code that make me look
like more than one person.
So one bot that I've
seen used periodically is something
like a CLA bot where
an open source project might
have a CLA or contributor
license agreement. And so somebody
who opens a poll request
might need to actually, you
know, sign some piece of,
you know, legal Lees sort
of paperwork saying that they
assign their rights for example,
or that they accept all
the terms that an open
source project has. And you
don't want to deal with
that as an open source
maintainer. I certainly don't like
I've got enough on my
plate. When it comes to
dealing with the project, I
try to write code. I
try to get releases out
the door, those sorts of
things. I don't want to
have to be like a
lawyer in my spare time
as well. So like, you
can have a bot set
up that will see anytime
somebody opens a poll request.
If they're a new contributor,
if they've never signed a
CLA the CLA bot can
actually pop in and say,
Hey, go to this. You
know, I don't know, DocuSign
URL, maybe a, some other
link, you know, however you
have it set up for
your, for your project and
its governance. It can enforce
that. I think the.net foundation,
this is where I've seen
that the most is they've
got one called like.net bot
that does this. And I
think other things too, and
it's, you should see its
contribution graph. You know, it's
that GitHub block, that calendar
it's just green all across.
That is a, that is
a glorious contribution graph at
that point. There's something to
be said for just really
well run. Well, well, bonded,
I guess, was that the
word open source projects, one
of the, my favorite open
source project, you should check
out just because they have
a, it's called an OctoPrint,
it's a web interface for
your three D printed printer.
And it is the most
organized, most thoughtful, most well-run
project that I have seen
in a long time, it's
run by, and I'm not
sure how to pronounce her
name. It's chairman. She's been
on the podcast, Gina Hausa.
And basically she's got bots
and issue managers and all
kinds of tagging. And when
you go to her issues,
there's, you know, if, if
you, if you, if you're
just a person who just
rolls in with a complaint,
like, it'll go and say,
sorry, there's not enough information
here. Like it could be
a bug, but she'll Mark
it as status, awaiting information,
potential bug. But if you
don't fill out the form,
right, it's basically like the
soup Nazi. And I mean
that in the nicest possible
way, like welcome, add a
new issue, Oh, you didn't
fill out the information. We
will wait for you to
fill out the information and
then we will close the
thing when, when you are,
you know, unless you give
us what you need to
get, you can organize an
and, and automate things. So
that it's a garden. It's
almost like animal crossing. You
make your space, your space
and get hub then becomes
your nesting ground for all
of the things you can
make a healthy community with
a series of actions and
bots and, and management. It's
just wonderful. I think that's
great. I think that for
new contributors coming in and
actually having an expectation and
understanding what the process is,
is really, really valuable. That's
actually probably a place where
I fall down as a
maintainer is not, you know,
maybe living up to that
standard. Hmm. So as we
get towards the end here,
what is coming next for
actions on get hub? So
the big thing that the
team is working on now
that we're really excited about
is bringing actions to get
hub enterprise server. So when
we launched actions, we jaded
last November and it was
available in github.com and in,
you know, the GitHub enterprise
in our cloud hosted version,
but not everybody wants a
cloud hosted, you know, place
for, for their code. Even
in 2020, lot of people
still want to have their,
their source code, their issues,
everything within their data center
and, you know, behind their
firewall. And so GitHub enterprise
server is that product it's
get hub behind your firewall.
And so we're bringing actions
into that. So you'll be
able to spin up compute
within your data center and
talk to your, you know,
private get hub enterprise server
instance. And so that's, that's
really the, the thing that
we're really focused on right
now. So get up actions
and get unpackages packages as
well. We're going to be
moving into, into GHGs. The
other thing that we're looking
at is some, some more
organization level workflows. So right
now you build actions in
a repository. What if you
wanted actions, especially like the
automation type of actions for
an organization instead of just
a single repository. So that's,
that's another thing that we're
taking a look at right
now. Very cool. And people
can go into course Google
out there for Google, with
being, as I like to
say, forget hub actions, get
hub packages and wander around
the get hub marketplace. And
you can get into dev
ops in a, probably in
your lunch hour and show
your boss. You can get
stuff building very, very quickly.
Yeah, absolutely. Fantastic. I've been
talking with Edward Thompson from GitHub.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .